Hi Neely,

Good morning! (Well, it's still morning in my time zone, but just barely.)

After a sleepless Friday night, I made it home yesterday intact but really wiped out. Today is a new day, with the conflict-of-interest statement to sign, scan, and send to Jim Kendrick, among other things.

For what it's worth, here's the YouTube channel I created for the videos I made with my friend in Wales:

https://www.youtube.com/@charles-ives-fourth-symphony

(Please feel no pressure to watch any of it!)

I began to type out the raison d'etre of the series, but I think that'd be easier to explain over videochat.

Please do let me know when you'd have time to Skype or Zoom. I'm free most weekday evenings, and then also on weekend mornings and afternoons.

Have a great week,
Tom


I'm not sure what you know about my work on the performance score, as I only touched on it for a split second during the meeting. My primary objective was to clarify all of Ives's dizzying explanations of the ways that passages may be interpreted and executed, both in text and notation, allowing for a freedom of expression that the work hadn't had in the past. 

The result has been that the symphony is now being interpreted and executed differently (and yet authentically) everywhere, with no two performances alike. It's no longer a caged beast, shaped by one particular viewpoint as to how it can or should be presented. It's now an energetic wild stallion.

But just to ensure the score and 1700 pages of parts were truly serviceable, I spent a week each with 12 different orchestras across North America and Europe, all between 2012 and 2017, getting real-world feedback from conductors, musicians, orchestra librarians, and even stage hands. All of that feedback informed the evolution of the full score and parts (and front matter).

So much happened during those 12 weeks, and yet (understandably) none of the background stories of the editorial work is explained in the score's front matter. The video series documents what happened during my journey that prompted additions to and clarifications of the score and parts. Some of the stories are downright funny! But I think they're valuable to anyone wanting to dig deep into the score and the edition.

I also made videos that go over tricky passages and elements in the piece; those are the ones in the first playlist, and they're the most academic.




